when I opened mato bridges Academy in
2010 my goal was simple open a school to
close a prison now to some this was an
audacious goal because our school is
located in the Brownsville section of
Brooklyn one of the most underserved and
violent neighborhoods in all of New York
City like many urban schools with high
poverty rates we faced numerous
challenges like finding teachers who
could empathize with the complexities of
a disadvantaged community lack of
funding for technology low parental
involvement and neighborhood gains that
recruit children as early as
fourth-grade so here I was the founding
principal of a middle school that was a
district public school and I only had 45
kids to start 30 percent of them had
special needs 86% of them were below
grade level in English and in math and a
hundred percent living below the poverty
level if our children are not in our
classrooms
how will they learn and if they're not
learning where would they end up it was
evident when I would ask my 13 year olds
young man where do you see yourself in
five years and his response I don't know
if I'm going to live that long or to
have a young woman say to me that she
had a lifelong goal of working in a
fast-food restaurant to me this was
unacceptable
it was also evident that they had no
idea that there was a landscape of
opportunity that existed beyond their
neighborhood
we call our students scholars because
they're lifelong learners and the skills
that they learn today will prepare them
for college and career readiness I chose
the Royal colors of purple and black
because I want them to be reminded that
they are descendants of greatness and
that through education
they are future engineers scientists
entrepreneurs and even leaders who can
and will take over this world today we
have had three graduating classes at a
at a 98 percent graduation rate this is
nearly 200 children who are now going to
some of the most competitive high
schools in New York City
it was a cold day in January when my
skull of a - a snit met Brandon Stanton
the founder of the popular blog humans
of New York
Brandon shared the story of a young man
from Brownsville who had witnessed
violence firsthand by witnessing a man
being thrown off of a roof yet he could
still be influenced by a principal who
had opened up a school that believes in
all children Vidal embodies the story of
so many of our underprivileged children
who are struggling to survive which is
why we must make education a priority
Brandon's post created a global
sensation that touched the lives of
millions this resulted in one point four
million dollars being raised for our
scholars to attend field trips to
colleges and universities some esteemed
programs as well as college scholarships
you need to understand that when two
hundred young people from Brownsville
visited Harvard they now understood that
a college of their choice was a real
possibility and the impossibility that
have been imposed upon them by a
disadvantaged community was replaced by
hope and purpose the revolution in
education is happening in our schools
with adults who provide love structure
support and knowledge these are the
things that inspire children but it is
not an easy task and they are high
demands within an education system that
is not perfect but I have a dynamic
group of educators who collaborate as a
team to determine what is the best
Ricola and they take time beyond their
school day and come in on weekends and
even use their own money to often
provide resources when we do not have it
and as the principal I have to inspect
what I expect so I show up in classes
and I conduct observations to give
feedback because I want my teachers to
be just as successful as the name Mount
hor bridges Academy and I give them
access to me every single day which is
why they all have my personal cell
number including my Scholars and those
who graduated which is probably why I
get phone calls and text messages at 3
o'clock in the morning but we are all
connected to succeed and good leaders do
this tomorrow's future is sitting in our
classrooms and they are our
responsibilities that means everyone in
here and those who are watching the
screen we must believe in their
brilliance and remind them by teaching
them that there indeed is power in
education thank